+++
title = "FOAF TV"
date = "2005-04-10 22:55:00"
slug = "foaf-tv"
[taxonomies]
tags = ['general']
[extra]
show_comments = "true"
+++

So, how about this for a FOAF application idea. How to find out what other  
people you know are watching, and hence, what you should be watching.

Take a service like [tv.bleb.org](http://tv.bleb.org/), GreaseMonkey it to add a button “I want to  
watch this” to each programme on the page (maybe with a “repeating  
item” checkbox), publish it as an iCalendar file (so you can subscribe  
to it in your calendar app and be reminded when it’s on) and rdf-ical,  
and link to the rdf-ical in your FOAF.

Then spider the “What I’m watching” files of other people listed in your FOAF file, and see what they‘re watching that you‘re not. You can probably derive a  
best recommendation by who has the most in common with you. You can  
also spider out further to find out what other people are watching that  
you‘re not, to see what you missed.

There was some talk recently I think about Social TV in terms of Tivos (like Tom’s post about [Social Software for Set-Top boxes…](http://www.plasticbag.org/archives/2005/03/social_software_for_settop_boxes.shtml)  
and there was something else on PVRBlog recently that I’m too lazy to  
go and find), and on-screen display of the other people you know and  
what they‘re watching (via the magic of webcams and so on), so you  
could watch a TV show collaboratively and IM/voice chat during it  
(namely going “I can’t beleive Rafael wasn’t gay!” if you‘re watching  
“Playing it straight“).

So there we go then – a nice project for someone: auto-discovery of other people within six degrees of FOAF watching the same show that I am, right now, and being able to chat/instant message with them. Ideally right on your telly via hacking MythTV or whatever else people use, or is hackable (I have no idea), but via the computer is good enough.
