+++
title = "Google Analytics"
date = "2005-11-14 13:46:00"
slug = "google-analytics"
[taxonomies]
tags = ['general']
[extra]
show_comments = "false"
+++

Google have a new service out called [Google Analytics](http://www.google.com/analytics/), a web site stats and trends analyser which is probably based on the code of Urchin, who they acquired earlier this year (although it has at least [one bug so far](http://www.flickr.com/photos/pip/63196688/)). The tracking is cookie-based and works by inserting a JavaScript fragment into the `head` section of the pages you want to be monitored.

In the interests of science, I’m giving it a go, which, according to the Terms and Conditions (section 8.1) means that I have to put this somewhere:

> This website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc. (“Google”). Google Analytics uses “cookies”, which are text files placed on your computer, to help the website analyze how users use the site. The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website (including your IP address) will be transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the United States . Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating your use of the website, compiling reports on website activity for website operators and providing other services relating to website activity and internet usage. Google may also transfer this information to third parties where required to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on Google’s behalf. Google will not associate your IP address with any other data held by Google. You may refuse the use of cookies by selecting the appropriate settings on your browser, however please note that if you do this you may not be able to use the full functionality of this website. By using this website, you consent to the processing of data about you by Google in the manner and for the purposes set out above.

So now you know.

Unless it turns into an unparalleled success I’ll probably remove it in a couple of weeks.
